# Spoofax 2.5.19 (06-12-2023)

Spoofax 2.5.19 updates several dependencies, and makes several small fixes and improvements to the meta-languages.

## Added

### Statix

- Add new primitives for term index handling
  - `SG_index_more_ast`: Add indices to terms without index
  - `SG_get_max_ast_index`: retrieve largest index in AST
  - `SG_reindex_ast`: Give all nodes a fresh index. Also returns map of old index to new index.

## Changes

### Dependencies

The guava library is no longer a direct dependency. It is still a transitive dependency through guice.

We have replaced `jsr305` with `jakarta.annotation-api`. In preparation for removing usage of other `javax` package usage, we have added `jakarta.inject-api` as a dependency too. `javax.inject` will be dropped in a later release after bootstrapping.

The following dependencies were updated:

- `com.google.guava:guava`: 26.0 -> 31.1
- `com.google.guava:failureaccess`: -> 1.0.1. Added because guava needs it.

### Statix

- Upon exception in solver, print trace of current constraint and current scope graph.

### SPT

- The SPT command runner (`org.metaborg.spt.cmd.Main`) now returns a non-zero exit code (`1`) upon test _failure_ (in addition to _errors_).

## Fixes

### 32-bit binary support

- Remove `sdf2table` and `implodePT` dependencies on CoreUtils.
- Print `sdf2table` and `implodePT` output to `/tmp/sdf2table.log` and `/tmp/implodePT.log` respectively.

### Stratego

- Lowered memory usage by interning fewer strings.

### Stratego 2

- Improved performance of clean build by reusing more work between compilation and analysis in the editor.
- Removed support for importing RTree and Stratego 1 files from Stratego 2.

### Statix

- Fix bug where failing AST property constraints would emit messages if there was a custom message in the causation chain.

{% from 'downloads.md' import downloads with context %}
{{ downloads('2.5.19') }}